A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.
Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.
It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.
Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.
A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
 A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.
The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.
Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.
Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
Most cats adore sardines.
A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.
